This is the first video in this course that
will teach you about Django. In this video,
we are going to create a very simple Django
project to display Hello World
Okay Let’s start, open a commend prompt
and create a new project by typing Django-admin
startproject and the name of the project.
In this case, the name of my project is first_project.
After create a new project, Django will create
a directory with the same name as our project.
Let’s try to dir, here we can see that we
have first_project directory. Let’s cd to
this directory
Next, we need to create a Django app by typing
python manage.py and the name of app, in this
case, the name of my app is app1
When we create an app in Django, Django will
also automatically create a directory with
the same name as the app for us. Let’s try
to dir, here we can see that we have app1 directory
Now let’s open our code editor. If you use
visual studio code, you can simply type code
space dot and the visual studio code will
open in the current directory.
Here we can see our first_project. You can
see that we have a lot of file in here
All of this file is automatically generated by
Django
Let’s try to run our project. Open the command
prompt and type python manage.py runserver.
We will see warning that you have some unplied
migrations like this, but for now, we can
ignore it, we will discuss about that later
in the next video
Here we can see that our server is running
on 127.0.0.1:8000. Let’s open our browser
and go to 127.0.0.1:8000.
Here we get the
default display of Django
this is mean that our project is running successfully.
Now let’s try to manimpulate our project
to display hello world. Open a visual studio code.
First thing that we have to do is register
our new app, which is app1. We can register
it on settings.py. Here in the INSTALLED_APPS,
let’s add our new app.
Next let’s edit urls.py file, here we can
remove the comment so we can read the important
script easily. Let’s add a new path here,
we will use root url here, and include app1.urls,
means that the root url will read for urls.py
file inside app1.
Next, if we see here, inside app1 directory,
we don’t have urls.py file, so we need to created it first.
We can just copy paste the
urls script from the urls.py file inside first_project directory
Oh ya, if we see here, we use an
include keyword, so we need to import it first.
In the urls.py inside app1 directory, we don’t
need admin, so we can delete it. We also need
to delete this line.
Here, I will create a new path hello_world.
Here we can replace the include with views.hello_world.
This script mean, if we go to hello_world
url, we will redirected to the hello_world
function inside views.py
Here we can see that we have views.py file,
later we will create hello_world function
inside this file. But before that, we need
to import views In here, because we use it here
Now let’s create hello_world function in
views.py,
here we need to add an argument request
in this video, we will just return simple
html expressions, so we need to import httpresponse
from Django.shortcuts. Next, inside hello_world
function, we need to return a simple html
tag using httpresponse, in this case I will
just return “Selamat datang di Django”
with H1 tag. Selamat datang di Django is “Welcome
to Django” in Indonesian.
Okay we have done here, let’s take a look
at command prompt, make sure that we don’t
have any error. Okay we don’t have any error
here. Let’s go to our browser and navigate
to 127.0.0.1:8000/hello_world. Here we can
see that we get “Selamat Datang di Django”.
Now let’s try to remove hello_world from
url and see what happened. We will see 404 eror here
Why? let’s go back to visual studio
code and open urls.py inside first_project,
here we can see that the root url is point
to urls.py inside app1, and if we see the
urls.py inside app1, here we don’t have
a root url, we just have hello_world url.
That’s why if we remove hello_world from
our browser, we will get 404 error.
Now let's try to remove hello_world url here.
Back to browser and refresh. Okey, now we
can see “Selamat datang di Django” in
root url. But if we try to put hello_world
again in the url, we will absolutely get 404
error, that is because we don’t have hello_world
url.
May be you will be little confuse about the
url, but don’t worry, we will cover about
url deeply in the next video.
I hope you understand about this basic concept
of Django. I recommend you to re watch this
video if you don’t really understand about
the basic concept of Django.
And if you have any further questions, feel
free to ask me and I will do my best to answer all of your question
Thankyou for watching
and See you on the next video.